Originally, we wanted to make something useful, but couldn't decide what. One day I was doing some math homework and I realized that it would be really helpful if I had a phone app that could take a picture of an equation and then solve it. That is how we came up with the idea for our app. At first, the task seemed daunting, but after we looked up what libraries were available for our use, it seemed a lot more reasonable. We decided that we would use an OCR engine called tesseract with the NDK as well as (possibly) some API calls to wolframalpha if our homebaked code couldn't handle doing any _real_ symbolic work. 
The reason we made our own code was to see if we could do it (we could) and so that it would be significantly faster than calling an outside API every time over the internet. Furthermore, math libraries are large and very specific so including one into our app seemed out of place. The OCR engine had (and still has) some issues with correctly recognizing text. First, it has to have a near perfect image for any of the recognition to work. That means lighthing has to be even, only one line of text can be present, and the image has to be directly above the text (ie no skewing, or jibberish will be produced). Furthermore, the provided training file was a little weak, so we had to manually retrain parts of the engine so it would better recognize text (we used the default LaTeX font). 
During production of our code, we also ran into some interesting bugs that had nothing to do with our code, most of our issues actually came from our infamiliarity with the android SDK and NDK. Converting the C code to something that the JNI could use was particularly difficult, as all the C code had to be reformatted to specific conventions. For example, C-strings had to be converted to jbyte arrays. jchar arrays and jstrings would not suffice for pointer manipulation. The naming conventions were also a little obscure (com.java.etc...). Overall, this was an interesting experience and now we feel like we could develop a solid phone app given enough time and motivation
